this conference will now be recorded
okay so fine so today we discussed the
some digital technique how to design
some digital circuits based on
the static cmos what is the static cmos
i will discuss on today so now suppose
that
actually one expression is there one is
expression is suppose that
okay very simple expression i taken
first and then we go for some higher
level uh suppose that i design the
circuit in
that is a nand so
how to design this nand gate circuit at
the cmos level
so the only uh three uh
two step is there in the two step you
have to design
any type of digital circuits
so the first step is suppose that the
first step is
your boolean expression must be
available suppose that in case of
land gate your logic is a b whole bar
okay so so this is a available
expression this is expression
label so now how to convert this
boolean expression to this logic to this
uh
transistor level design okay so what is
the process
uh what process so now we go for the
fundamentals and we have to design this
type of architecture
okay just to remember this concept i
just uh tell you
in k actually the static cmos
is a two block one block and another
block
okay so this block is connected to bdt
and this block is connected to ground
okay this is the first block this is the
second block and now here the gate is
common if suppose that this is a gate
and here you take the output okay so the
output is denoted by y
so so this is a general architecture
available in all that cmos circuit
okay so this is a general architecture
architecture is available in all the
digital
or all cmos level circuits if you talk
about the cmos
so cmos is a combination pmos and nmos
so now block
is known as a pull-up network this
block is known as a pull up and this
lower side block if you talk about the
lower side block
this is the pull down okay
this is a pull down so so you know
very very well the pmos the pull-up
transistor is designed by pmos
the pmos is the sample is like this
okay now here what is pull down pull
down is
actually is a and mos transistor
in all in all the case your nmos is
connected to ground
source is connected to ground in case of
nmos transistor
okay but here if you talked about the
pull up network pull-up network is a
pmos
this is your pmos and this source is
connected to vdd
source is connected to vdd so these are
the fundamental
fundamental things you already know the
pull-up network is a pmos
and the pull down network is a
transistor but now my objective is we
design
a digital circuit based on the cmos
logic
so all the cmos logic circuits is
actually based on this type of
architecture
in this block you design some circuit
may be series connection or maybe
parallel connection
and also in the blog two you design some
circuit
may be nmos maybe series or parallel
so we discuss later how to
how to consider this is a series
connection and this is a parallel
connection
what is the concept behind that but now
you just
understand in all the cmos circuits
it actually design this type of
architecture
what is a pull-up and there is a
pull-down
and the pull network pull-up network is
connected to vdd
and the pull-down network is connected
ground and this is a common connection
this is a gate
and this is output okay
so that is clear it is no any issue
but now we go for the pull up
and pull down network how to design the
pull up and pull down network
based on the boolean expression based on
the available boolean expression
so here in this logic land logic your
boolean expression is available a b
whole bar whole bar
so this is my expression and the my
architecture is only
if you divide this circuit in a two
block
this is a pull up okay i i
designed two circuit only i designed two
model rule on
one module is a pull-up
in in this down i design pull down
okay so so uh so that is okay
in the upside we design the pull up and
in the downside we design the pull
down network
okay so that is clear but now we design
what is the action type maybe series
connection
or maybe parallel connection may be
series connection or maybe parallel
connection so based on the availability
of the boolean
boolean expression
so based on the availability of the
we have to decide the pull-up pull-down
network
so now we go for the designing part
how to design the pull-up and how to
design the pull-down
network so you know in this side
if you divide the circuit in two part
two part in this side
we design some circuit in this side
is also design some circuit
so in this side that is pull up network
in this side this is a
down network so that means here all the
all the devices all the or whatever the
device
you are using in this side that is pull
up
so that means here pmos he required only
pmos
similarly in the sound network in this
side
in the downside you require pull down
the pull down network is designed by
nmos
okay so the design way and
moss so that that logic
we have to fix first in our mind
now then you decide number of
transistors
in case of pull up or in case of pull
down how many times are required
and what is the connection whatever what
is the connection maybe there is or may
be
parallel okay so
now first we decide number of
transistors in
in in my circuit designing my nand logic
is available that
none logic is a b whole bar
okay so this is this logic we have to
design
in case of cmos level okay so that is
that is clear only so first we decide to
part
one part is how many number of
transistors
and and what is the what is a type maybe
series
or maybe panel so two thing we have to
solve here
okay so just to understand in this
boolean expressions there is a two input
only your input is only a
and b so at least you require
transistors uh means in the pull-up
network or
network is equal number of transistors
in case of a sigma circuit design or
static cmos circuit design
pull up this is a pull down
so in the pull up network how many
because in pull down network
we are using equal number of
the transistor is same okay
so now here in this
upside if we talk about the upside
i require two transistor and in the
downside
i also require two dimensions
okay so that is clear why because in the
nand logic
two input is there so that means you
require only
two dimensions okay so now
we have to we have solved this problem
and second issue how to decide the
connection
if if the true transistor is there
what is the connection maybe series or
may be parallel
so so what concept how to how to arrange
this
uh how do i take the transistors maybe
in series type or maybe in parallel
what is the logic or what is the concept
behind this
okay so now we go for here for the
concept how to design the
series of parallel connection okay so
please understand if
the logic is a b whole bar
here first we concentrate this side
this is a pull down and this is designed
by only nmos transistors
so here just you observe carefully
here you observe carefully
in case of n mass okay just i just you
use this
table in case of cmos
you just observe in my boolean
expression
in the available boolean expressions
what is this is a plus sign or dot sign
if it is plus sign then you consider
this is the parallel connection
if it is dot sign
then you consider the device
in the series mode
and now in case of pmos
this operation is opposite
the plane is denoted here series and the
dot
sign is denoted the parallel
why because the pmos is a compliment of
nmos
what is the rule in nmos if the opposite
rule are
the opposite rules are available on the
the rules are available on the pmos
so in my endless logic in my nmos logic
my dots dots a plus sign represent the
parallel
and the dot sign and the dot sign
represent the series
but here in case of p mod the plus sign
opposite opposite behavior
okay so so that is clear it is okay
now if suppose that if the
if this logic in this downside
just you observe here in this expression
the sign is there so what is the meaning
of dot here
just to see just to carefully uh
observer
dot means series connection
so series means both the transistors
both the tangents are connected in
series
this is a series connection because here
the dot sign is available this dot sign
the meaning is
it is in series
okay because here the plus sign is not
there
only dot sign so the meaning of dot sign
the connection is series
this is a series connection
okay so now my uh pull down network is
complete
because we know this block this down
block is a pull down
now we go for the pull up network design
so this is a pull up network
okay so in case of pull out network
in case of pull-up network
your device
using only pmos i think you know very
well it is no way
you know very well uh
okay so just to observe carefully what
is my rule
our rule is this all the time this rule
is applicable
to design any type of static
logic circuits
okay so here this part is complete now
we go for this part
so just to observe here what is the sign
dot sign here what is the dot
dot means parallel so now in this
case your two transistors are indel
to time is starting parallel in case of
pull down network
okay so so that that so that is clear it
is no any problem
uh okay so here your again you know
if the pull down pull up network is
complete
then you apply a vdd connection and here
ground connection
and then you take output here this is
your node output y
this is your a b whole bar
okay so so that architecture if you talk
about the architecture
if this is complete just to observe the
pull up network and pull down network
what is your connection type
and what is the what is the
connection maybe series or maybe
parallel
okay so now how to verify this circuit
is
like an and gate
okay so now we take example if suppose
that this is one this is one
my output is zero
okay so now we put a is one b is one a
is one
b is one both are one one
so upside if you talk about this side
this transistor
if the input logic is one the mass is
off this transistor is off
and this is also off
but in case of nmos logic this is nmas
this is on and this is also on
so it is the meaning that this
connection is open
this connection is open this is open
connection
the transistor is off the pmos is on
but your nmos is actually working
so what is the meaning here if nmos is
actually work
or nmos is on so here
this this is your output node
so now here some capital return is there
if suppose that capacitor is fully
charged
or your higher voltage is available
maybe one
so this is the ground so now connection
is available here this connection
so the meaning is that your output node
voltage
is fall down your output node
no node voltage is fall down because
here
this is a ground connection and this is
a one this is a higher level
so this voltage is again fall down
now in this case if it is fall down
your output voltage is zero
output voltage is zero
okay so now we take one more case if
suppose that i take one more case
then you have to better understanding
what is the operation or functionality
of the
nand gate so now
in this case i put 1 is 1 and b is 0
so now we put a is 1 b 0
is 1 b 0
now you decide first what is
the behavior of the mass transistor
maybe on or maybe
so if it is 0 if it is zero this
transistor is on
i think it is clear transistor is on
this is off
okay now you check this transistor this
one is
gate input is one this is on and this is
off
so now this path is not stabilized this
path is not connected anywhere
because this transistor is open so here
this wire is open
so it is good but here if you observe
this transistor is on
so in this case your output your this is
your output
okay just type okay just i discuss
clearly this is your output and this
tiny star is
done so now connection is available here
in this case your output this supply
voltage is one
your output is always also one
your output is also one so this is the
correct output
and this is the behavior of the
nand this is behavior of the nanda logic
okay so i think it is no any problem in
the designing and the functionality
checking
the functionality of this circuits you
are
checking what are the two table of the
nand gate the architecture
there is no any problem in upside there
is a pull-up network
and in the downside the pull-down
the pull-up network is based on the pmos
and pull-down network is based on the
nmos
and in case of nmos the plus
the parallel and the dots sign denote
the series
and in case of pmos the plus sign is
series and the dot sign is parallel
then you observe carefully what are the
given boolean expressions
maybe plus or maybe dot accordingly you
have to your synthesize
or design your sigma circuits
but the number of transistors must be
equal
okay so always in a in all the pmos
transistor
number of pmos transistor is equal to
number of and most dimensions
okay so that is one way uh now we take
one more example
then you have a clear picture in your
mind
of the circuit designing part
okay so suppose that
okay after five or ten minutes i will
take attendance
okay if anyone not there please
okay so now uh
just we complete this one then we take
attendance okay
because this otherwise flow is not a
problem
okay so now in this case
i design the cmos
star logic what is the nor you know the
boolean expression
a plus b whole bar
clear this is an available boolean
expression
so now how to first to design the
circuits
so in my circuit my two part this is a
one part
in this part we design some circuit
in the downside we designed some
so this is a pull-up and this is a
pull-down
so these two transistors is actually is
a pmos
and this two transistor is actually a
and
because this is a pull up this is a pull
down
the pull up network is connected to vdd
and the pull down is connected to ground
so so it is okay it is no problem you
know very well
but we concentrate on more
for architect what is what is
architecture
configuration here
so first we concentrate on the
pull down network so first we
concentrate on our
pull down so please remember the
formula what is what is our formula
so just you observe in the given boolean
expression
some dot is there or some parallel some
plus sign is there
okay so now i observe here carefully
this is a plus sign
in this boolean expression there is a
plus sign and no dot
so what is the rule here just you
observe carefully in case of
n mass the plus sign means parallel
connection
plus sign means parallel connection
so now how many number of transistors
how many then you observe number of
inputs input is a two
number of transistor is also 2
so it's clear so if
so here the rule adding to this is a
plus sign plus
is a parallel connection these two
transistors are connected in parallel
clear these two transistors are
collected in parallel so now my this
circuit is complete
my this lower side my network is
complete
there is no any issue
okay so now we go for the top side
design this side is the design some
circuit
on the upside
okay so this is the pull up network
so so so this is a pull up network so
pull-up network
is designed by pmos actually this is a
pmos
here this is a pmos is a bubble
bubble
so now we decide the configuration of
the pmos
what is the type maybe siri
so according to the rule
the pmos transistor the plus sign the
series
and the dot sign represent the parallel
connector
that's that is a rule already this is a
rule already there
so now we go for the boolean expression
this is the plus sign
so what is the plus sign plus is a
series
so that means these two transistors
these two transistors
okay so these two transistors
are connected in series because this is
a
pmos the rule is plus sign denote this
so that's why these two transistors are
connected in series
so now my designing part is complete
the question complete so
that is the one now we verify my circuit
is
actually uh working on the correct way
or not
by all the logics whatever the logics
of nor logic are correct or not so that
is very simple
take one case suppose that my input is 1
now we check what is the output here
this is a known output y
okay so now we fix this is one this one
this is one this is one
clear so
so if a and b both input is one
if a and b both input is one
then you are you just
conclude that what is the behavior of
the what is the switch what this is on
or this is off
so suppose that ah this is one
so that means this is off
this transistor is off and this is also
off
and nmos is on and this is
als this is on
so so the meaning is if these two
transistor is on
at this time these two transistor is off
since this is open circuit
this is open circuit so here no
connection is available this connection
is actually not available
this is open circuit but here
if you observe the carefully in the
downside
if you care observing this is this is on
also on so now this connection is
stabilized here
that means all the output is go to the
ground level
this lower potential is available here
this side if you talk about the
uh here connection this is a ground
connection
in this case your output is always zero
so now this is a zero
okay so that is one thing one one
combination i take in one one
so now we take some other combination
like zero zero if we take both input is
zero 0
[Music]
so accordingly we have to check what is
my
what is the node output voltage so if it
is 0 this is 0 this is 0 this is
so anyone please tell me it is a p mass
behavior if the k
gate input is zero
okay i think you understand my question
in case of p mass if the gate input is
zero
what is the behavior of the pmos it is
on or off
okay so this is on this is also on
but this time this is all this this is
off
and this is also off
so now if i in so what is the meaning
here if you observe that carefully this
side transition is on
this connection is available here
because this is on this is also on
so now in this case this is a d means
higher voltage like one volt
like logic one vdd means the logic one
okay so now if suppose that
uh okay so the vdd is connected here
so my logic is one in the output node
this is a large this
output always one so so this is a
functionality my
my functionality of the two table is
correctly verified in in the given
in the given logic circuits so that is a
nor logic
okay so that is a fundamental thing we
discuss
now and logic and you're not logic
now we go for some something complex
circuit design
if if the boolean expression is very
very complex
if the boolean expression is very
complex then
then what is architecture okay
the suppose that i go for this circuit
designing
a bar a b plus c whole bar
this is a complex so now we take this
example
so first we just decide how many inputs
uh first
observe carefully how many inputs in
this boolean expression
there's only three inputs a b and c so
in this pull-up network
three transistors are required and in
case of pull down
you also require three transistors so to
sixth register you required to design
this
logic circuit that is a b plus c
okay so our concept is
if we go for the pull down network this
is a pull down
pull down is designed by the nmos
okay so that is clear now we decide the
combat well decide the configuration may
be series on
parallel okay so now we go for the
this so do you write the arrangement of
the transistors
so now what is the rule just to observe
carefully
plus parallel dot means series so this
is a dot a dot b
that means this a dot b is
series connection so that means these
two transistors are in series
okay but now the expression is not
complete plus c's are
also given plus c is also given in the
boolean expression
so so now
if we observe carefully this is y
suppose that this is
x plus c
what is x axis a dot b
so x plus c what is a plus sign here
plus
so plus means parallel correction so x
you have already designed here
now you put one transistor in the
parallel mode
this is a parallel mode connection
so if it is
if you complete this circuit then your
pull-down network
complete okay so so
so that is the way to design the
pull-down network okay so now we are
also complete the pull-up network
otherwise my circuit architecture is not
complete
so we concentrate on this side this side
this side this is a pull-up network
so first we observe the boolean
expression what is my boolean expression
this one
so again i write this expression then
you have a clear picture a dot b
plus c whole bar
okay so do you do not consider whole
bunch is automatically
no problem okay so now here first is a
dot b
first is a dot b
so represent a dot b dot means here
just to observe careful dot means
parallel connection
so two transistors you can connect in
parallel
but this is a parallel connection dot b
dot represents the parallel
so two tangents are connected in
parallel and this
plus c
what is the meaning in the plus c to the
plus sign you present the series
the plus sign represents the series that
means
okay suppose that this is x plus c
so x you have already designed this is a
this is a parallel connection you have
already completed
okay now here plus sign is there
what is the meaning of plus plus is a
series
so that means you connect one transistor
in a series manner
you connect this transistor in a series
manner
so now this circuit is complete this
pull down
pull up network is also complete
okay so so that is output you take
output here
okay so there is no any other issue
so now we take one more example then you
have a clear picture
in your mind okay so now this time my
expression is y is equal to
a plus b c
plus d whole bar
okay now this time two plus sign and one
dot sign this is a plus sign this is a
plus sign here and here one dot sign
p dot c this is the one dot sign
okay so first we
observe carefully concentrate on pull up
pull down network
so pull down network is this
okay so first we observe the dot sign bc
b means dot sign is there not c
okay so the dot means series
dot means it so now you take two
transistor in a series
okay vc is complete
so again here some expression is there
bc plus d
so one more transistor you connect but
plus sign represents the parallel
plus sign represent the parallel but
here you connect the transistor in
parallel
okay but expression is not plus a is
also there in in your boolean
expression so plus again represent the
parallel
so now you connect one more transistor
so so this is a complete and complete
design for this for this boolean
expression
so the opposite behavior here if you put
the series
then in the pull-up network the parallel
connection if you put here series
then here you put parallel connection
so now we check suppose that here it is
series
so this is the parallel bc is a parallel
and similarly if it is parallel now this
is a series
and this is also parallel now this is
also series in case of
opposite behavior in case pull up
network
okay so this is a complete way
you have to design any type of circuits
any type of digital but your
primary requirement necessary condition
is
boolean expression if it is available
boolean expression
then you decide the number of dimensions
how many transistors
and you have to decide the pull-up
network
configuration and similarly the
configuration of pull-down net
and then you combined the pull-up and
pull down
in a single wire
that this is the wire if you observe
carefully if you
and that means there's a pull up network
it's a pull down
so now you wire connected here for
combining purpose you combine the two
two device pull up and pull down in a in
in a single
single um single architecture this is a
single arc
so for the connection is if the
connection is common
that is your output that is your output
okay so here if you have carefully all
the concept
but you remember this one your series
and parallel connection may be something
change
table is not verified or functional
is functionality is not verified and
your circuit may be wrong
so
so i think it is clear if any think any
problems
in this configuration of the static cmos
circuit design
you ask anything so i given something
that i given some very complex
boolean expression then
you do not worry about but because that
you just use
the concept whatever what are the
concept i discuss here
according to the concept you go for the
any complex circuit design
may be your n number of inputs
it is possible so and for the designing
point point of
designing point of view this cmos
circuit
effectively to go for the high speed
computation circuit
all the c circuits are high speed
computation
and the static we talk about the static
power
static power is the suppose that static
means this know any path
in no in any time it is not possible
your connection is people from bdt to
ground
it is not possible because sometimes
your
this pmos is on your nmos is off
okay sometimes your pmos is
off and nmos is on that means
this to voltage are not connected at any
time
so your static power dissipation is
almost
almost zero
okay so
this is the one way that's why cmos
technology is a lower
it's a high speed computation and low
power dissipation of the circuits
so today is what is an and gate
and what is uh our what is an angular
what is a nor logic
and what is the some complex complex
boolean expressions how to design
in case of cmos level
so uh okay
this time go here so this is a way to
design any type of boolean expression
in case of cmos circuit design
may be your nmos based on the
this conference will now be recorded